# Canadian-Sustainability-Goals
Analyzing the Canadian Government's Initiatives to Reduce Carbon Footprint

Climate change is a global issue that has been a growing concern for governments worldwide. Burning of fossil fuels for numerous reasons generates green house gases that will in turn act as a blanket wrapped around our planet trapping sun’s heat and causing rise in global temperature commonly called global warming. This causes issues such as negative effects on various ecosystems, rising sea levels, saltwater intrusion, change in seasonal cycles, etc. Thousands of scientists and government reviewers concurred in a number of UN reports that keeping the increase in global temperature below 1.5°C would help humanity avoid the worst climate effects and maintain a habitable climate. Regrettably, present strategies predict a 2.8°C rise in temperature by the end of the century.
In light to these reports, the Canadian Government has targeted net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050. Furthermore, the provinces are taking different steps towards the same goal set by the central government. This project aims to analyze the Canadian Government's initiatives toward achieving its net-zero emission goal and the impact of these initiatives on renewable energy production and consumption across provinces.
We focus on analyzing energy consumption and emissions by the government facilities, industries and by residents. To get to net-zero emissions, renewable energy is the key. Therefore, we compare renewable source usage over the years and compare them with non-renewable sources. Lastly, we combine all the data and query to make a holistic comment on how the sustainability goals are being handled by the Canadian Government so far.
